The director was pleased with your past project, but she says that a friend of hers, who is involved in a similar project used “sessions and cookies” to secure and personalize the website for each user. She asks you to:

Add a shopping cart feature to the website so that users can shop at their leisure
Enable arbitrary navigation of multiple product pages
Email the user the completed invoice for each transaction
Maintain a user’s state (i.e. whether they are logged in)
Warning! Do not copy a previous students work. There are many different requirements for this assignment. Not only are previous assignments different, if you copy one, you will also be copying their problems and possibly outdated packages and use of code (for example, the body-parser middleware is now included in the Express package and does not need to be installed separately). If you use code from another source, clearly reference the source and indicate what changes you made to it. Do not copy entire files (especially someone else’s server.js).

 

This assignment involves the following requirements (in addition to all requirements for previous assignments):

Temporarily storing and displaying a user’s information from transactions while logged in:
Users should be able to select multiple products and quantities on any product page
The selections must be stored in a “cart” where users can later view, add, or delete items from this cart and ultimately “check out” and create an invoice
Keep in mind that the cart does not necessarily need exist on its own page
For example, you may have a “conceptual cart” whose information is used to fill out the user-selected quantities on each product page as the pages are visited.
Product pages will not longer automatically go to login after selecting items
Therefore you will need to have some way to enable to user to stop shopping and “check out” the items in their cart
Having multiple pages:
There should be at least three **(3) separate pages of product options with at least six (6) items on each page in your main application for your user to choose from
Therefore, you may need to have several versions of your items or service (e.g. if you are selling cell phones, maybe you will offer Sprint on one page, AT&T on another, Mobi on another)
Site navigation:
Must be able to navigate **easily back and forth between product pages using navigation **bar
Must have a home page
Must be able to login/register at any point while on the site
State:
The user’s identity, login status, and number of items in shopping cart, needs to be maintained even when the user is not currently at the site
This information needs to be displayed on every page
Other Requirements:
Fix any shortcomings in assignment #2 (all the things that should have worked in #2 must now work in #3)
The site must be navigable to any page at any time
For example, the user should be able to go to product page 1 when they are on product page 3
You will likely want to enable this by adding a navigation bar. Think about what you are used to seeing on a web application
You will need to provide a reasonable index page that “starts” the user into your site
The user should not be forced to start here, but if they don’t know where to go, it starts here and enables them to go to where they might want to be
Use index.html as your home page
Unlike Assignment 2, you must allow your user to login or register any time before showing an invoice, not just after or before selecting products
Your application should be designed in a way that it is easy to add, change, remove products and product pages
Well-designed user interface. You are expected to improve the design of your application significantly
High usability, easy to learn. For usability you may use different form elements such as select boxes for quantity selections instead of textboxes
You must still validate any data submitted by the user even if the interface “guards” against the user inputting something invalid
Realistic e-commerce site (should seem real)
Personalize the pages
After logging in from the login page, save the user’s ID (e.g. user name) in the session array and/or cookie. NOT in a query string.
Each page (other than login and registration) should display the relevant personal information about the user - user name or name, login status, number of items in cart
The invoice and email must make use of the user’s personal information (name, address, etc.). You may wish to add additional information to the registration or ask the user for this at checkout.
After using the application or making a purchase, the last page should say “Thank you, <user’s name> for your " and other relevant user info (e.g. shipping address for invoice).
If the user logged in previously without logging out, you will not make them log in again (unless they were away for an extended period of time) and their shopping cart will contain the items they had selected on the previous visit.
You must implement some way to enable the user to logout without checking out. After checking out the user is always logged out and their shopping cart is emptied or destroyed.
Security
A customer should not be able to checkout without first logging in. If a user registers, automatically log them in.
A user should automatically be logged out after some reasonable period of inactivity (no less than 5 mins and no more than 30 mins). This is to avoid enabling someone to access a users account if they left their machine/phone for an extended period of time or if they are using a shared/public machine.
Use sessions or cookies this time to keep the customer from doing a checkout without being logged in. It should not matter if the customer came from the login or registration page or any other page. The user should be able to login or register at any time before checking out. If they try to checkout without being logged in, redirect them to login.
All passwords should be stored encrypted.
Sending email using Javascript
You will likely want to use the nodemailer module (https://nodemailer.com/about/). You are welcome to find and use other mail functions or examples from the net. Whatever works!
When mailing from Javascript you must specify a valid SMTP server. For computers on the UH network (like itm-vm.shidler.hawaii.edu) you can always use mail.hawaii.edu but when your server is not running on the UH network this SMTP server will likely be blocked and your email will fail to send. It is possible to use Gmail’s SMTP server (smtp.gmail.com) but it would need to use your gmail (or UH) username and password to authorize and access.
You may also need to set the “From:” mail header. If you get a warning saying that mail could not be sent due to missing “From” header, then add it to your mail command.
Hint: to send your receipt via email, use the same receipt that you print now. Create the receipt as a string rather than printing directly to the screen and then print this string then you can also use it as the message parameter for mail().
Make sure you test sending email on both your local machine and the itm-vm server!
Shopping cart use-cases:

Your shopping cart must be able to do the following:

View the cart’s contents and total cost (list of items bought, tax, and other charges)
Add items to a shopping cart
Remove items from the cart
Check out and purchase
There is no requirement in how the above are done. Just that it is possible. You do not need a separate cart editor page. For example, you may allow the user to edit the invoice page. Note that many of the cart functions will already be handled in the product pages.

Check-out use-case scenario:

Display the contents of the cart along with the tax and total cost breakdown in an invoice page and ask the customer if they accept_before completing a transaction._
If the customer accepts the terms, send them to a confirmation page (with all the user’s information and the invoice) and automatically send the customer the confirmation in an email using the mail function.
Finally, destroy all variables in the session so that when the user returns, the cart is empty.
Final steps:

Run and test your program before and after uploading to the class Web server. To test you must place all your files in the Assignment3 folder on the class web server,using the itm352student account, in a sub-folder called <Lastname_team_member1>_<Lastname_team_member_2>

Submission:

Push your code to your repo and submit the link to Laulima Assignment 3 AND deploy it to the class website. See Laulima Assignment 2 for more detailed instructions.

***VERY IMPORTANT:***You should still have the username “itm352” with password “grader” set in your program to enable grading of your assignment. And you should still have either index.html or index.htm to start your program.

 

Additional Requirements:

There are no AR's for this assignment, but there are extra credit opportunities. If you do any of these, make sure to identify that when you submit your application so they can be graded.

Extra credit opportunities:

Extra credit: Keep shopping cart between logins When the user logs in, if they had a non-empty shopping cart previously, use this shopping cart. If they have a non-empty shopping cart before logging in, ask them if they want to merge it with the previous shopping cart, use only the previous, or dump the previous cart and use only the current.
Extra credit: When the user logs in, say what time they last were at your store.
Extra credit: When the user logs in, if they had items in their cart previously without checking out but after they logged in, ask them if they want to go back to that cart or continue with their current cart.
Extra credit: Think of the basic ways a hacker might try to gain access to the system, get user information, or crash the system so it cannot be used (denial of service attack). Add defenses against this. For example, do not allow a user to use more than a reasonable number if characters in a textbox (imagine if someone entered a million characters as their user name!). Another example is do not let users enter characters that are used for special purposes such as separators in your registration data. e.g. ‘my;hacked;user;name’ could cause major issues if the data format uses ‘;’ as separators. Even worse, do you allow anyone to access the user registration data? Perhaps you put it in the document root for your static web server.
Extra credit: Editing of user information:
If a user goes to the registration page and they are logged in, it should let the user view and edit their registration information (except password! this can be changed but not viewed). A new registration can be made only if the user is not logged in. The information kept for each user is at least: full name, password, email.
Hint: You can likely modify the existing registration page to display the user’s information rather than make a seperate registration edit page. Start by reading the user’s information then setting the “sticky” form values to the information just read.
Extra Credit: If items are not checked out (purchased) in some amount of time (you decide how long), remove the user’s session and notify the user that their shopping cart has been emptied (Session Expiration)